docs/src/project.md, before:

# Project Setup

Part of the functionality of DrWatson is creating and navigating through a project setup consistently. This works even if you move your project to a different location/computer or send it to a colleague with a different Julia installation. In addition, the navigation process is identical across any project that uses DrWatson.

This can "just work" (TM) because of the following principles:

1. **Your science project is also a [Julia project](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/v1/environments/) defined by a `Project.toml` file.** This way the project tracks the used packages (and their versions) and can be shared with any other Julia user.
2. **You first activate this project environment before running any code.** This way you ensure that your project runs on the specified package installation (instead of the global one). See [Activating a Project](@ref) for ways to do this.
3. **You use the functions `scriptdir`, `datadir`, etc. from DrWatson** to navigate your project (see [Navigating a Project](@ref)).

Importantly, our suggested project setup was designed to be fully reproducible, see [Reproducibility](@ref).

## Default Project Setup

DrWatson suggests a universal project structure for any scientific project, which is the following:

```@setup project
using DrWatson
struct ShowFile
    file::String
end
function Base.show(io::IO, ::MIME"text/plain", f::ShowFile)
    write(io, read(f.file))
end
```
```@example project
ShowFile(dirname(pathof(DrWatson))*"/defaults/project_structure.txt") # hide
```

### `src` vs `scripts`
Seems like `src` and `scripts` folders have pretty similar functionality. However there is a distinction between these two. You can follow these mental rules to know where to put `file.jl`:

* If upon `include("file.jl")` there is _anything_ being produced, be it data files, plots or even output to the console, then it should be in `scripts`.
* If it is functionality used across multiple files or pipelines, it should be in `src`.
* `src` should only contain files that define functions or types but not output anything. You can also organize `src` to be a Julia package, or contain multiple Julia packages.

Notice that it is typically the case that in the `src` folder you will have a full Julia package as a subfolder. In such cases be sure that you add the *relative* path to the package in your `Manifest.toml`, instead of the absolute path. This will ensure reproducibility!

## Initializing a Project

To initialize a project as described in the [Default Project Setup](@ref) section, we provide the following function:
```@docs
initialize_project
```

## Activating a Project
This part of DrWatson's functionality requires you to have your scientific project (and as a consequence, the Julia project) activated.
This can be done in multiple ways:
   1. doing `Pkg.activate("path/to/project")` programmatically
   2. using the startup flag `--project path` when starting Julia
   3. by setting the [`JULIA_PROJECT`](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/environment-variables/#JULIA_PROJECT-1) environment variable
   4. using the functions [`quickactivate`](@ref) and [`findproject`](@ref) offered by DrWatson.

We recommend the fourth approach, although it does come with a caveat (see the docstring of [`quickactivate`](@ref)).

Here is how it works: the function [`quickactivate`](@ref) activates a project given some path by recursively searching the path and its parents for a valid `Project.toml` file. Typically you put this function in your script files like so:
```julia
using DrWatson # DONT USE OTHER PACKAGES HERE!
quickactivate(@__DIR__, "Best project in the WORLLDD")
# Now you should start using other packages
```
where the second optional argument can assert if the activated project matches the name you provided. If not the function will throw an error.

```@docs
quickactivate
findproject
```

Notice that to get the current project's name you can use:
```@docs
projectname
```

## Navigating a Project
To be able to navigate the project consistently, DrWatson provides the core function
```@docs
projectdir
```

Besides the above, the shortcut functions:
```julia
datadir()
srcdir()
plotsdir()
scriptdir()
papersdir()
```
immediately return the appropriate subdirectory. These are also defined due to the frequent use of these subdirectories.

In addition, the return value of all these functions ends with `/`. This means that you can directly chain them with a file name using just `*`. E.g. you could do
```julia
using DrWatson
file = makesimulation()
tagsave(datadir()*"sims/test.bson", file)
```

## Reproducibility
The project setup approach that DrWatson suggests is designed to work flawlessly with Julia standards, to be easy to share and to be fully reproducible. There are three reasons that **true** reproducibility is possible:
1. The project's used packages are embedded in the project because of `Manifest.toml`
2. The navigation around the folders of the project uses local directories.
3. The project is a Git repository, which means that it has a detailed (and re-traceable) history of all changes and additions.

If you send your entire project folder to a colleague, they only need to do:
```julia
julia> cd("path/to/project")
pkg> activate .
pkg> instantiate
```
to use your project.
All required packages and dependencies will be installed and then any script that was running in your computer will also be running in their computer **in the same way!**

In addition, with DrWatson you have the possibility of "tagging" each simulation created with the commit id, see the discussion around [`current_commit`](@ref) and [`tag!`](@ref).
This way, any data result obtained at any moment can be truly reproduced simply by resetting the Git tree to the appropriate commit and running the code.

Commit message:

Add how to have packages in src to the docs
Closes #62

docs/src/project.md, after:

# Project Setup

Part of the functionality of DrWatson is creating and navigating through a project setup consistently. This works even if you move your project to a different location/computer or send it to a colleague with a different Julia installation. In addition, the navigation process is identical across any project that uses DrWatson.

This can "just work" (TM) because of the following principles:

1. **Your science project is also a [Julia project](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/v1/environments/) defined by a `Project.toml` file.** This way the project tracks the used packages (and their versions) and can be shared with any other Julia user.
2. **You first activate this project environment before running any code.** This way you ensure that your project runs on the specified package installation (instead of the global one). See [Activating a Project](@ref) for ways to do this.
3. **You use the functions `scriptdir`, `datadir`, etc. from DrWatson** to navigate your project (see [Navigating a Project](@ref)).

Importantly, our suggested project setup was designed to be fully reproducible, see [Reproducibility](@ref).

## Default Project Setup

DrWatson suggests a universal project structure for any scientific project, which is the following:

```@setup project
using DrWatson
struct ShowFile
    file::String
end
function Base.show(io::IO, ::MIME"text/plain", f::ShowFile)
    write(io, read(f.file))
end
```
```@example project
ShowFile(dirname(pathof(DrWatson))*"/defaults/project_structure.txt") # hide
```

### `src` vs `scripts`
Seems like `src` and `scripts` folders have pretty similar functionality. However there is a distinction between these two. You can follow these mental rules to know where to put `file.jl`:

* If upon `include("file.jl")` there is _anything_ being produced, be it data files, plots or even output to the console, then it should be in `scripts`.
* If it is functionality used across multiple files or pipelines, it should be in `src`.
* `src` should only contain files that define functions or types but not output anything. You can also organize `src` to be a Julia package, or contain multiple Julia packages.

Notice that it is typically the case that in the `src` folder you will have a full Julia package as a subfolder. In such cases be sure that you add the *relative* path to the package in your `Manifest.toml`, instead of the absolute path. This will ensure reproducibility!

## Initializing a Project

To initialize a project as described in the [Default Project Setup](@ref) section, we provide the following function:
```@docs
initialize_project
```

### Including Julia packages in `src`
Notice that the project initialized by DrWatson does not represent a Julia package. It represents a scientific project. That being said, it is often the case that you want to develop normal Julia Modules inside your project, so that you can later use them in your code with `using PackageName`. The proper way to do this is to initialize Julia packages, using the package manager, inside the `src` folder, using these steps:

1. Active your project that uses DrWatson.
2. Change directory to the project's `src` folder.
3. Go into package mode and initialize a package with the name that you want: `generate PackageName`
4. `dev` the local path to `PackageName` using the package manager , e.g. `dev PackageName`. Notice that this command uses a local path, see this PR for more details: https://github.com/JuliaLang/Pkg.jl/pull/1215



## Activating a Project
This part of DrWatson's functionality requires you to have your scientific project (and as a consequence, the Julia project) activated.
This can be done in multiple ways:
   1. doing `Pkg.activate("path/to/project")` programmatically
   2. using the startup flag `--project path` when starting Julia
   3. by setting the [`JULIA_PROJECT`](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/environment-variables/#JULIA_PROJECT-1) environment variable
   4. using the functions [`quickactivate`](@ref) and [`findproject`](@ref) offered by DrWatson.

We recommend the fourth approach, although it does come with a caveat (see the docstring of [`quickactivate`](@ref)).

Here is how it works: the function [`quickactivate`](@ref) activates a project given some path by recursively searching the path and its parents for a valid `Project.toml` file. Typically you put this function in your script files like so:
```julia
using DrWatson # DONT USE OTHER PACKAGES HERE!
quickactivate(@__DIR__, "Best project in the WORLLDD")
# Now you should start using other packages
```
where the second optional argument can assert if the activated project matches the name you provided. If not the function will throw an error.

```@docs
quickactivate
findproject
```

Notice that to get the current project's name you can use:
```@docs
projectname
```

## Navigating a Project
To be able to navigate the project consistently, DrWatson provides the core function
```@docs
projectdir
```

Besides the above, the shortcut functions:
```julia
datadir()
srcdir()
plotsdir()
scriptdir()
papersdir()
```
immediately return the appropriate subdirectory. These are also defined due to the frequent use of these subdirectories.

In addition, the return value of all these functions ends with `/`. This means that you can directly chain them with a file name using just `*`. E.g. you could do
```julia
using DrWatson
file = makesimulation()
tagsave(datadir()*"sims/test.bson", file)
```

## Reproducibility
The project setup approach that DrWatson suggests is designed to work flawlessly with Julia standards, to be easy to share and to be fully reproducible. There are three reasons that **true** reproducibility is possible:
1. The project's used packages are embedded in the project because of `Manifest.toml`
2. The navigation around the folders of the project uses local directories.
3. The project is a Git repository, which means that it has a detailed (and re-traceable) history of all changes and additions.

If you send your entire project folder to a colleague, they only need to do:
```julia
julia> cd("path/to/project")
pkg> activate .
pkg> instantiate
```
to use your project.
All required packages and dependencies will be installed and then any script that was running in your computer will also be running in their computer **in the same way!**

In addition, with DrWatson you have the possibility of "tagging" each simulation created with the commit id, see the discussion around [`current_commit`](@ref) and [`tag!`](@ref).
This way, any data result obtained at any moment can be truly reproduced simply by resetting the Git tree to the appropriate commit and running the code.
